Add description of OSCAL-deep-diff (#63)
usnistgov/oscal-tools: docs/content/projects/oscal-deep-diff.md

---
title: "OSCAL Deep Diff"

> description: "OSCAL Deep Diff - compare OSCAL artifacts programmatically and consistently"

Reviewer: OSCAL Deep Diff - compares instead of compare (I am assuming is referring to the tool, not the actions a user may perform.

Author: Resolved in [f468d61](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-tools/pull/63/commits/f468d61bae90e0ca95dfc1685ee1feeb746bbddf)

> description: "OSCAL Deep Diff - compare OSCAL artifacts programmatically and consistently"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "OSCAL Deep Diff - compares OSCAL artifacts programmatically and consistently"
```

heading: "OSCAL Deep Diff"
toc:
  enabled: true
usabanner: true
---

> OSCAL Deep Diff is an open-source CLI application and library that can produce schema-agnostic comparisons of OSCAL JSON artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OSCAL Deep Diff is an open-source command-line application and library that can produce schema-agnostic comparisons of OSCAL JSON artifacts.
```

OSCAL Deep Diff was built with the following considerations:

> - Document comparisons can vary wildly in intention and desired output, so reliance on an input schema is undesirable. The same tool should be able to compare any OSCAL JSON artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Document comparisons can vary wildly in intention and desired output, so reliance on an input schema is undesirable. The same tool should be able to compare any OSCAL JSON artifacts based on a customized set of comparisons.
```

- The comparison must be configurable in order to constrain the output document to meet the user's needs. For example, a consumer comparing revisions of a control catalog may not care about capitalization differences in control names between two documents, but a catalog author may care about such differences.
- Human-readable output formats such as Excel workbooks are appropriate for sharing, but are not appropriate for automated decision making such as a CI/CD system. A document comparison output format should be configurable to match the use case.
- The tool must be portable and extendable so that it can be integrated into other tools, such as web applications.

## How do I use OSCAL Deep Diff?

> OSCAL Deep Diff is currently designed as a command line (CLI) tool which can be used without relying on cloud services. For details on how to install and use OSCAL Deep Diff, see the project page [on GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff).

Reviewer: not sure why the cloud services are mentioned. Any logic? maybe "used locally, without relying on any internet connectivity at the run time"

Author: Resolved in [f468d61](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-tools/pull/63/commits/f468d61bae90e0ca95dfc1685ee1feeb746bbddf)

> OSCAL Deep Diff is currently designed as a command line (CLI) tool which can be used without relying on cloud services. For details on how to install and use OSCAL Deep Diff, see the project page [on GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps the following would work?

```suggestion
OSCAL Deep Diff is currently designed as a standalone, command line tool. For details on how to install and use OSCAL Deep Diff, see the project page [on GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff).
```

OSCAL Deep Diff can also be used as a standalone library for integration into Javascript/Typescript applications. For details, see the [example OSCAL Deep Diff web application](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff/tree/master/examples/odd-example-frontend).

## How do I request support, report bugs, or file features?

> The developers of OSCAL Deep Diff will provide support on a best effort basis to the general community [by opening issues on GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff/issues/new).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The developers of OSCAL Deep Diff will provide support on a best effort basis to the general community. Please identify any defects or feature requests [by opening a issue](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-deep-diff/issues/new)  on GitHub.
```
